#86: description for how to create custom version of the DMH (#88)
metno/data-management-handbook: README.md

In case of questions and need for help - please submit an issue on this repository!

# Local compilation of the handbook

> The general part of the documentation can be compiled by running `vagrant up`. You can reuse the code here to add CI and compile your own version.

Author: no - this is for the general part. It works like this. But we can add some explanation about how to get vagrant working.

Please ask if you need help.

# How to reuse and customize this handbook

>  1. Create a separate git repository (a private repository is recommended; it could be both gitlab or github);

Author: No, I'm talking about a new repository. You're not supposed to use this one. The new repository will contain you custom DMH. This repo is the general one. Is this suggestion more clear?

```suggestion
 1. Create a separate (new) git repository (a private repository is recommended; it could be both gitlab or github);
```

>  1. Create a separate git repository (a private repository is recommended; it could be both gitlab or github);

Reviewer: Could we then create a folder with all that has to be copied? _"Create a new git repo...., and copy folder X to it"_

>  2. Create a folder named, e.g., "source" in your new repository;

Author: not in the new one :)

>  2. Create a folder named, e.g., "source" in your new repository;

Reviewer: Ok, but this folder is [ still available in this branch](https://github.com/metno/data-management-handbook/tree/issue86_ci-cd-guide)

>  2. Create a folder named, e.g., "source" in your new repository;

Author: Please, don't worry about the branches in this repo. A new repo is needed for the custom/specialised DMH. I don't know how to be more clear on that... Maybe we should talk next week?

>  2. Create a folder named, e.g., "source" in your new repository;

Reviewer: Yes, let's talk. To review the test, I have to follow it. It is not clear what I need and what I don't need. Keep in mind that most institutes don't use some of the tools used here, and this should be written for them, not for those familiar with such tools. Otherwise people will not use it.

>  2. Create a folder named, e.g., "source" in your new repository;

Author: Yes, ok. Do you have time today? I'm available until 11 now, then between 12 and 14.

    * Copy all the template files containing the string `specialized` or just `spec` from the generic version (this one) to the new folder; and
    * Copy the file `dmh-theme.yml` to the new folder.

 3. To get your organisation's visual profile on the DMH, replace the content of `dmh-theme.yml` to reflect your organisation;

>  4. The file `source/data-management-handbook.adoc` includes the custom files via environment variables. These variables must be defined in you CI system (if one of the partner-specific files does not exist in your local repository, the template provided here will be used).

Author: you don't need to copy that. It is just an explanation of how the environment variables are used. Is the following better?

```suggestion
 4. Upon compilation, the file `source/data-management-handbook.adoc`, which resides here (i.e., in this general repository), will include the custom files via environment variables. These variables must be defined in you CI system (if one of the partner-specific files does not exist in your local repository, the template provided here will be used).
```

To simplify the process, the MET gitlab CI files are copied into the folder `custom-setup` of the current repository:

* `dot.gitlab-ci.yml` (change the name to `.gitlab-ci.yml`) is used for compiling HTML and PDF versions of the MET customized handbook. Environment variables used in Gitlab CI are defined there. Modify the paths to match your own system.
* `Vagrantfile` defines a virtual machine configuration for easy local compilation of the HTML and PDF versions of the handbook with the command `vagrant up`;

  * `docker-compose.acdd_elements.yml` is used to build the `Dockerfile.acdd_elements` container to run the `yaml2adoc.py` script from [py-mmd-tools](https://github.com/metno/py-mmd-tools) and create an asciidoc file describing how to document netcdf-cf files with global attributes. Do not change the file created by this script (`source/acdd-elements.adoc`), since that will cause git conflicts.
  * `docker-compose.asciidoctor.yml` is used to build the `Dockerfile.asciidoctor` container to run the `compile-docs.sh` script, and create the HTML and PDF versions of the handbook.

>   * NOTE: when running `vagrant up`, you will have to uncomment line no. 31 in `compile-docs.sh` and avoid committing it back to git.

Author: No, because the previous was about how to compile the general version. This is about how to compile the custom/special version that you have in your new repo.
